Update listview-overview.md (#1709)
dotnet/docs-desktop: dotnet-desktop-guide/framework/wpf/controls/listview-overview.md

---
# ListView Overview

> The <xref:System.Windows.Controls.ListView> control provides the infrastructure to display a set of data items in multiple layouts or views. For example, a user may want to display data items in a table and also to sort its columns.  

Author: You are probably correct that _different_ is appropriate. I am not familiar with the topic enough to be sure. Many people use the word _different_ improperly. It might be being used properly here. Due to the misuse, the word seems ambiguous to me here. If there is a way to differentiate what is meant then that probably would help. Perhaps it could be simplified to _to display a set of data items in other ways_ or _to display a set of data items isoug a different layout or view_ .

> The <xref:System.Windows.Controls.ListView> control provides the infrastructure to display a set of data items in multiple layouts or views. For example, a user may want to display data items in a table and also to sort its columns.  

Reviewer: I like that suggestion. I'll implement a change here. Thanks for the feedback!

> The <xref:System.Windows.Controls.ListView> control provides the infrastructure to display a set of data items in multiple layouts or views. For example, a user may want to display data items in a table and also to sort its columns.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The <xref:System.Windows.Controls.ListView> control provides the infrastructure to display a set of data items in using a different layout or view. For example, a user may want to display data items in a table and also to sort its columns.  
```

## What Is a ListView?  

>  The <xref:System.Windows.Controls.ListView> control is an <xref:System.Windows.Controls.ItemsControl> derived from <xref:System.Windows.Controls.ListBox>. Typically, its items are members of a data collection and are represented as <xref:System.Windows.Controls.ListViewItem> objects. A <xref:System.Windows.Controls.ListViewItem> is a <xref:System.Windows.Controls.ContentControl> and can contain only a single child element. However, that child element can be any visual element.  

Reviewer: I'm not too keen on this change. It feels like you lose the concept that `ListView` derives from `ListBox` and both controls are `ItemsControl` types. Maybe this whole sentence can be restructured or perhaps `ItemsControl` can be omitted. This is the only place `ItemsControl` is referenced, so I don't really think it's important to point that out. What about this?
```suggestion
 The <xref:System.Windows.Controls.ListView> derives from <xref:System.Windows.Controls.ListBox>. Typically, its items are members of a data collection and are represented as <xref:System.Windows.Controls.ListViewItem> objects. A <xref:System.Windows.Controls.ListViewItem> is a <xref:System.Windows.Controls.ContentControl> and can contain only a single child element. However, that child element can be any visual element.  
```

Author: Your suggestion sounds great. I think it is more eloquent and if it is technically correct then it is a winner.

  
 ![Screenshot that shows a ListView with GridView output.](./media/gridview-overview/listview-gridview-output.jpg)  
  

>  You can create a custom view mode by defining a class that inherits from the <xref:System.Windows.Controls.ViewBase> class. The <xref:System.Windows.Controls.ViewBase> class provides the infrastructure that you need to create a custom view. For more information about how to create a custom view, see [Create a Custom View Mode for a ListView](how-to-create-a-custom-view-mode-for-a-listview.md).  

Reviewer: Love it

Author: Looks good.

  
<a name="BindingDatatoaListView"></a>

## Binding Data to a ListView  

>  Use the <xref:System.Windows.Controls.ItemsControl.Items%2A> and <xref:System.Windows.Controls.ItemsControl.ItemsSource%2A> properties to specify items for a <xref:System.Windows.Controls.ListView> control. The following example sets the <xref:System.Windows.Controls.ItemsControl.ItemsSource%2A> property to a data collection called `EmployeeInfoDataSource`.  

Reviewer: This too is a good one, thanks.

 [!code-vb[ListViewCode#GridViewColumnProperties](~/samples/snippets/visualbasic/VS_Snippets_Wpf/ListViewCode/visualbasic/window1.xaml.vb#gridviewcolumnproperties)]
 [!code-xaml[ListViewCode#GridViewColumnProperties](~/samples/snippets/csharp/VS_Snippets_Wpf/ListViewCode/CSharp/Window1.xaml#gridviewcolumnproperties)]  
  

>  You can also specify a <xref:System.Windows.Data.Binding> as part of a <xref:System.Windows.DataTemplate> definition that you use to style the cells in a column. In the following example, the <xref:System.Windows.DataTemplate> identified with a <xref:System.Windows.ResourceKey> sets the <xref:System.Windows.Data.Binding> for a <xref:System.Windows.Controls.GridViewColumn>. Note that this example does not define the <xref:System.Windows.Controls.GridViewColumn.DisplayMemberBinding%2A> because doing so overrides the binding specified by <xref:System.Windows.DataTemplate>.  

Reviewer: I like this, but I think the original text is kind of incorrect and could be clarified. What do you think of this suggestion?
```suggestion
 You can also specify a <xref:System.Windows.Data.Binding> as part of a <xref:System.Windows.DataTemplate> definition that you use to style the cells in a column. In the following example, the <xref:System.Windows.DataTemplate> identified with a <xref:System.Windows.ResourceKey> sets the <xref:System.Windows.Data.Binding> for a <xref:System.Windows.Controls.GridViewColumn>. Note that this example doesn't define the <xref:System.Windows.Controls.GridViewColumn.DisplayMemberBinding%2A> because doing so takes precedent over <xref:System.Windows.Controls.GridViewColumn.CellTemplate%2A>.
```

Author: Sounds good grammatically so if it is a technical improvement then fantastic. Except _precedent_ should be _precedence_, correct?

Reviewer: Hahaha! Yes it should be! Thank you for catching that error!

  
 If you define an <xref:System.Windows.Controls.ItemsControl.ItemContainerStyle%2A> for a <xref:System.Windows.Controls.ListView> control and also define an <xref:System.Windows.Controls.ItemsControl.ItemTemplate%2A>, you must include a <xref:System.Windows.Controls.ContentPresenter> in the style in order for the <xref:System.Windows.Controls.ItemsControl.ItemTemplate%2A> to work correctly.  
  

>  Do not use the <xref:System.Windows.Controls.Control.HorizontalContentAlignment%2A> and <xref:System.Windows.Controls.Control.VerticalContentAlignment%2A> properties for <xref:System.Windows.Controls.ListView> content displayed a <xref:System.Windows.Controls.GridView>. To specify the alignment of content in a column of a <xref:System.Windows.Controls.GridView>, define a <xref:System.Windows.Controls.GridViewColumn.CellTemplate%2A>.  

Reviewer: Little error here:
```suggestion
 Do not use the <xref:System.Windows.Controls.Control.HorizontalContentAlignment%2A> and <xref:System.Windows.Controls.Control.VerticalContentAlignment%2A> properties for <xref:System.Windows.Controls.ListView> content displayed by a <xref:System.Windows.Controls.GridView>. To specify the alignment of content in a column of a <xref:System.Windows.Controls.GridView>, define a <xref:System.Windows.Controls.GridViewColumn.CellTemplate%2A>.  
```

Author: Okay.

## Creating a Custom View Mode  

>  Customized views like <xref:System.Windows.Controls.GridView> are derived from the <xref:System.Windows.Controls.ViewBase> abstract class, which provides the tools to display data items represented as <xref:System.Windows.Controls.ListViewItem> objects.

Reviewer: Thanks!
